# Olivia

Company: Junot
Date: April 25, 2023
Feature requests: AI Home staging, Erase object
Interviewer: Alix Moggia, Alice Lucas
Product: AI, Mobile App
Status: Completed
Type: Discovery
User Segmentation: Not user
of interviews: 1

# User Feedback

***More on Olivia***

- We interviewed Olivia, as she is a friend of Alix to have a deeper knowledge of a potential persona - The director of a few real estate agencies
- Olivia manages 2 Junot Paris 16 agencies. After her business school, she worked 10 years in marketing in large brands (Henkel), before switching into real estate. Where she made a much higer living. She loves her job and is really excited by founding properties and finding buyers at the right price for those.
- She is the director of the agency, but doesn’t own the P&L of the agency, nor gets an incentive on it (”But it may come”). She both is a director and a “negociatrice” - ie real estate agent
- Per agency, she has 5 realtors & 1 assistant & 1 intern “alternante”.

**What wakes up her at night**

- What she searches :
    - Getting mandates in, on “real projects”, “vrais projets”, in exclusivity, with a fee rate which is the right one - later on she will tell us the rate “should be around 5%, not 2%”. As she searches for profitability.
    - How does she measure profitability ?
        - Time is money
    - What is a “real project”?
        - Landlords that really want to sell their property, at the right price, not guys searching opportunistic sell “pas faire un coup”.
    - How she handles offer & demand ?
        - All the game is making your supply, so finding those mandates
        - Buyers are not attached to a realtor - They will choose a given property that suits them, not because it’s sold by Junot or by their “syndic”.
    - How does she find mandates ?
        - At the beginning, she started from nothing, going to see “gardiennes d’immeubles”, prospecting, starting with friends & families
        - Now, it’s only word to mouth and a few clients contacting them directly
        

***About the market***

- Right now, we are living a market at 2 speeds
    - A 200m2 + 200m2 in the 8th will be sold 30€ per meters square, ie 8M€ apartment's will be sold pretty fast
    - While the 1st floor, for a succession, will take a year to be sold, and will have successive drop in prices and be more complex to manage

***About the “group”***

- Junot is a group of 17 premium agencies in Paris, they share Marketing & HR resources. They have just opened “franchise” as a model for outside Paris
- Junot puts a lot of focus on marketing. They have high requirements when it comes to pictures, virtual visits, floor plans that are offered by most of the properties as we can see on their website
- Junot is in the luxury market, so they have a premium + service “service ++” : from the estimation till the sell

***About the process***

- 1st meeting : the estimation meeting - Meet the landlord and prep for the estimation
    - they are using pictures to define the estimation. Pictures help them to compare with the latest properties sold in the agency. Her benchmark is mainly her expertise, Junot latest deals, and  notaries index. However, notaries index is not as precise as their Junot data base because they have more details
    - They can come with another realtor to help determine the property valuation
- 2nd meeting : meet the landlord to provide them back the estimation and sign the mandate
- 3rd meeting : Signature
- 4th interaction - Shooting
    - Can be just before the mandate signature which is now completely automated of just after. Usually it’s just before.
    - This is when time laggs, as they need to find an OK time for the landlord, the realtor & the photographer - They also need to check the meteo. Challenge is the availability of the photographer and their willingness to go to Neuilly if they are on the 9th
    - For the shooting, at Junot, they systematically come (which is not the case for other competitors). They are trying to “depersonnalize” the property as much as possible
        - She comes in a “movers” outfit (which is really not the fashion style of Olivia)
        - She sometimes have “half of the flat outside” “j’ai la moitié de l’appart sur le palier” - I remove the old carpet from the grandpa, the red armchair that you will hate later on on the pictures, pictures frame, the awful fluo green shampoo, the bath towels on the dry towel machine
    - On the question - how do you find appartements ? Do you send a guide before ?
        - Yes, they do, but she realized that people can not get the exact requirements they want - Some people will make everything in order but will alwas forget to remove cream, towels, fruit plates etc…
- After the shooting
    - Olivia receives pictures from the photographer, choose some and the rest is done by the assistant, that will create the listing on Junot CRM which is Immo Facil by AC3. This listing will then be automatically sync with Se Loger & Explorimmo
- 

***About pictures & the like***

- Olivia really likes working with one photograph, which is super efficient. Efficient means
    - Seeing what needs to be removed, replaced into the property - “Move the carpet of grandma”
    - Send pictures in a day
- Before taking the picture, they need to completely “depersonalize” the apartment as much as possible, there’s some cleaning and putting away involved:
    - no family picture
    - in the kitchen, we don’t want to see food, bread, etc
    - in the bathrooms, we would remove the towels, shamphoo & soap, etc
    - If there’s a big ugly rug that hides the wood floor, then the rug goes
    - Same for ugly furniture
- She valorises the quality of the pictures
- She has a pool of photographers, with her prefered one Julien, and Junot also uses e-Side.
- About the virtual visits : it’s the photographer who is doing it  - He has a machine with a tripod.
- About floor plans: they systematically do it with a company [Drawbotics](https://blog.drawbotics.com/) She searches for the plans when entering the deal and then they transform it with exactly the same format & typology for Junot, which helps gets a consistent branding experience and matches with premium quality they want. These plans are “hyper harmonisés”, “ils retravaillent les plans d’origine”, “il n’y a pas de plan dégueulasse”. I watched at Sotheby’s ones and they feel twice less professional
- About home staging
    - Virtual one
        - More and more used, now all properties look the same because it’s the same design style (very white, modern scandinavian-like), same type of furniture “Tous les apparts se ressemblent un peu. C’est la limite de l’exercice”.
        - Is used for 25% of her properties
        - Can be useful if you have an important drop in price
    - “Physical home staging”
        - Could be. It’s not on her “budget”, it’s on the landlords one - But could be interesting. She had a very nice terrace, but then all the flowers were dying, home staging could have been great.
- On the listing itself
    - What is important is to have the best pictures
    - The text itself is not very important
    - What people care and look at : price, meters square, photos (ie. I think she includes every types of photos here)

***About our app***

- Olivia won’t see the value on her premium sector and also because she fears the reception by her realtor : “We always ask people to do more”. “I’m very happy to delegate shooting to professionals”
- Or if the landlord is a difficult one - When she started, some landlord didn’t want any interaction - or maybe because she was starting in the business
- But could be interesting for
    - “Simple mandate” (in opposition to exclusive mandates)
    - Rentals
    - For her estimation - I asked if she was ready to pay 15€ for pictures for estimation, the answer was no

# Interviewer Observations

Main learnings

- Importance of removal of objects to “depersonify” a flat
- No importance of listing description
- What we can learn already from the website : Nearly all properties benefit from floor plans in a very uniformed way, all pictures have a watermark, all have virtual visits.

# Action Items

- [ ]  Share the app with Olivia
- [ ]  She offered to provide us with the technology used for virtual visits
- [ ]  She offered us to meet with the assistant
- [ ]  she offered us to meet with an independant with his own agency